## Exercise 2

### Which ordering(s) perform best for 1000-by-1000 matrices?

Since `jki` (Usually faster than `kji` but sometimes not) and `kji` have similar results, they are both the best. `jki`: A stride 1, B stride 0, C stride 1; `kji`: A stride 1, B stride 0, C stride 1.

### Which ordering(s) perform the worst?

Since `ikj` and `kij` have similar results, they are both the worst. `ikj`: A stride 0, B stride n, C stride n; `kij`: A stride 0, B stride n, C stride n. B and C have large strides.

### How does the way we stride through the matrices with respect to the innermost loop affect performance?

Smaller stride lead to higher performance, larger stride lead to lower performance. Both because of the extent of spatial locality.

## Exercise 3

### At what point does cache blocked version of transpose become faster than the non-cache blocked version? Why does cache blocking require the matrix to be a certain size before it outperforms the non-cache blocked code?

1. Blocked version is always faster than non-cache blocked version under Ubuntu.

2. Under WSL, the turning point is when `n == 1000`.

   If the matrix size is too small, the cache can store all data of the matrix at once if non-blocked, and then all data accesses will be cache hit. Under this scenario, there's less calculation in non-blocked version than blocked version, thus non-blocked version is faster. 

   If the matrix size is bigger, the cache can not store all data of the matrix at once if non-blocked, and then some data accesses will be cache miss. Under this scenario, the blocked version can make better use of spatial locality since it only needs to cache part of the matrix , thus the blocked version is faster.

### How does performance change as the block size increases? Why is this the case?

The performance first improves and then deteriorates.

The improvement is due to the better spatial locality since larger block size means more consecutive hits in inner loop.

The deterioration is due to the small capacity of the cache. Since the cache cannot store all data in the block, cache miss happens and the performance deteriorates toward the non-blocked version.